---
id: azure-three-tier-overview-2
title: Overview
---

# Modules

- Authentication

Azure AD can be used for authentication purposes of the todo application.
It provides the features as well as UIs for tasks such as new user registration, multi factor authentication and self service password reset.
Also provides useful ways to enforce password policies as well.

Multi factor authentication:

Multi factor authentication can be done using following:
    1. Approve using Microsoft Autenticator app option
    2. Mobile SMS code option
    3. Mobile Call option
    4. Email option
    5. OATH token option

Azure AD and Azure API manager for API permissions
    1. Azure API Gateway will autneticate the user using Azure AD.
    2. Azure AD provides a valid token to access the resource APIs.
    2. Based on the token and claims received with user authentication, API Gateway will manage permissions for the users to access the APIs.

- Create Todos
[POST]
/api/todos

This endpoint is defined for creating todos. it consumes the "Todo" model as an input parameter from the request body and insert a new todo record to the database. Unique identifier for the todo will be auto generated by the service.

header

body
{
    "title":"string",
    "description":"string"
}

response
[201 - created] type response will be returned as a success output together with the created todo item in the body.
[400 - bad request] type response will be returned with the meaningful message if the given input is not matched with the requirements.

- List Todos
[GET]
/api/todos

This endpoint is defined for the retrieval purpose of the todo items from the database.

header

response
[200 - ok] type response will be returned as a success output together with the list of todo items in the body.
[204 - no content] type response will be returned if there is no any todo's defined.

- Mark as completed
[PATCH]
/api/todos/{id}/markascompleted

This endpoint is defined for mark a particular todo item as a completed one. A unique identifier will be taken as a route parameter to identify the particular todo item.

header

response
[200 - ok] type response will be returned as a success output together with the modified todo item in the body.
[400 - bad request] type response will be returned with the meaningful message if the given id is not existed.

- Soft delete Todos
[DELETE]
/api/todos/{id}

This endpoint is defined for deleting a particular todo item. but in this context, we need to keep them in the database for audit purposes. so this will be a soft delete.
A unique identifier will be taken as a route parameter to identify the particular todo item.

header

response
[200 - ok] type response will be returned as a success output.
[400 - bad request] type response will be returned with the meaningful message if the given id is not existed.

(Indunil, Sachith)